---
layout: post
title:  "ConFiG - A new state-of-the-art white matter numerical phantom generator"
summary: ConFiG enables us to generate more realistic synthetic white matter tissues than ever
author: Ross Callaghan
date: '2020-06-22 10:00:00 +0000'
category: diffusionMRI
tags: diffsionMRI
thumbnail: /assets/img/config.png
embedthumb: 0  
---
{% include vimeoPlayer.html id=402472645 %}

Check out the full journal article [here](https://arxiv.org/abs/2003.10197)

Numerical phantoms are used in a wide range of studies to develop and validate white matter microstructure imaging techniques, however these numerical phantoms simplify the true, complex nature of white matter microstructure.

In this work we developed [ConFiG: Contextual Fibre Growth](https://arxiv.org/abs/2003.10197), a brand-new state-of-the-art numerical phantom generator capable of creating more realistic synthetic white matter tissues than ever before. We do this by mimicking the way axons grow in nature, following chemical cues in their envrionment.  

We demonstrate that the synthetic tissues generated by ConFiG are microstructurally realistic in Figures 1 and 2 below. Figure 1 shows the diameter distribution and coefficient of variation along fibres for real axons segmented from electron microscopy and a ConFiG phantom. This demonstrates that ConFiG is able to capture the general shape of the distribution we see in real axons while Figure 1d shows some exemplar fibres, highlighting fine details seen in real axons that are captured by ConFiG such as bending and beading of axons. It should be noted that these details are not explicitly imposed, but arise as a result of the growth process in ConFiG.

Figure 2 shows a side-by-side comparison of a histological slice from real white matter and a virtual histology slice generated from a ConFiG phantom. Here the ConFiG virtual histology is not trying to directly replicate the real EM contrast, but is simply here to demonstrate that the cross-sectional shape of ConFiG fibres capture realistic feature well. As highlighted by the coloured boxes, ConFiG captures complex non-circular axonal cross-sections such as fibres squashed between two others (yellow) and many fibres deformed aroud one other fibre (green). Again, it should be noted that these features are not explicitly imposed, but arise from the ConFiG growth algorithm.

{% include figure.html path="/assets/img/posts/config/diameter_dist.png" caption="Figure 1: Comparison of diameter distributions in real axons and ConFiG phantoms. ConFiG is able to capture then general shape of the diameter and coefficient of variation as well as capturing fine details on a per fibre basis such as bulges (shown in d)" %}

{% include figure.html path="/assets/img/posts/config/virthist.png" caption="Figure 2: Comparison of a real histological slice and virtual histology from a ConFiG phantom. Whilst not capturing the details of the histological constrast, ConFiG phantoms capture complex morphological features seen in real tissue that no other WM phantom generator is capable of."%}

These realistic synthetic tissues also give rise to realistic simulated diffusion MRI (dMRI) signals as shown in Figure 3. Here, we generated three ConFiG phantoms to be representative of three WM regions in the brain. Using these phantoms, we simulated the dMRI signal using the Human Connetome Project (HCP) measurement scheme and compared the simulated signal to real signal from an HCP subject. As Figure 3 shows, the simulated and real signals correspond well, both in terms of direction averaged signal (bottom row) and direction dependent signal (middle row). There is some devation from the real signal at high &#124;n.G&#124; in the middle row (i.e. measuring the signal along the main fibre bundle direction), though this to be expected as the real signal reaches the noise floor and the noise-free simulated signals continue to decay.

{% include figure.html path="/assets/img/posts/config/hcp_vs_sim.png" caption="Figure 3: Comparison of real dMRI signals from an HCP subject and simulated signals from ConFiG phantoms, demonstrating the ability of ConFiG phantoms to reproduce dMRI signals well."%}

ConFiG is a valuable new tool, giving us the capability to investigate microstructural features with more detail than ever before. This opens up avenues for thorough validation of exisiting microstructure imaging methods as well as development of exiting new models for microstructure imaging. 
